# Test Automation Framework

This project is a test automation framework for testing the login functionality using Selenium, Pytest, and Docker.

## Project Structure


## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Docker
- Python 3.9+

### Installing Dependencies

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (optional but recommended):
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
    ```

2. Install the required Python packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### Running Tests Locally

1. Run the tests using Pytest:
    ```bash
    pytest --html=report.html
    ```

2. To run tests with detailed logs:
    ```bash
    pytest --html=report.html --log-cli-level=INFO
    ```

### Running Tests with Docker

1. Build the Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t test-automation-framework .
    ```

2. Run the Docker container:
    ```bash
    docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/report.html:/app/report.html test-automation-framework
    ```

## Test Scenarios

The following test scenarios are covered:

1. **Valid login**: Test with correct username and password.
2. **Invalid login with incorrect username**: Test with an incorrect username and correct password.
3. **Invalid login with incorrect password**: Test with a correct username and incorrect password.
4. **Empty username field**: Test with only the password field filled.
5. **Empty password field**: Test with only the username field filled.
6. **Empty username and password fields**: Test with both fields empty.
7. **Labels Displayed** Test username, password and footer labels displayed 
8. **Links Clickable** Test forgot password and create account links clickable 
7. **Error message display**: Ensure appropriate error messages are displayed for invalid login attempts.

## Directory Structure

- `pages/`: Contains the page object model classes.
- `conftest.py`: Contains pytest fixtures.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists the Python dependencies.
- `Dockerfile`: Docker configuration file.
- `screenshots/`: Directory for storing screenshots taken during tests.
- `logs/`: Directory for storing logs.
- `tests/`: Contains the test cases.
- `testdata` Contains the test related data if any
- `base/`: Contains the customised logger object model classes.

## Logging and Reporting

- Logs are stored in the `logs/` directory.
- HTML test reports are generated by Pytest and can be found in the root directory (or as configured in Docker).

## Troubleshooting

- **Error: `NameError: name 'pytest' is not defined`**: Ensure pytest is installed and properly imported.
- **Timeout issues**: Increase the timeout value in `WebDriverWait` to give more time for elements to load.
- **Incorrect locators**: Double-check the locators used in the page objects.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please create a pull request with a detailed description of your changes.


